An education company named X Education sells online courses to industry professionals. On any given day, many professionals who are interested in the courses land on their website and browse for courses.The company markets its courses on several websites, search engines, and even social media sometimes. Once these people land on the website, they might browse the courses, fill out a form for the course, or watch some videos. When these people fill out a form with their email address or phone number, they are classified as leads. Moreover, the company also gets leads through past referrals. Once these leads are acquired, employees from the sales team start making calls, writing emails, etc. Through this process, some of the leads get converted into successful sales, while most of the leads do not. The typical lead to successful sale conversion rate at X education is around 30%.
Now, although X Education gets a lot of leads, its lead-to-sale conversion rate is very poor. For example, if they acquire 100 leads in a day, only about 30 of them are converted into successful sales. To make this process more efficient, the company wishes to identify the most potential leads, also known as ‘Hot Leads’. If they successfully identify this set of leads, the lead conversion rate would go up as the sales team would now be focusing more on communicating with the potential leads rather than making calls to everyone. A typical lead conversion process can be represented using the following funnel.
As you can see, there are a lot of leads generated in the initial stage (the initial pool of leads), but only a few of them come out as paying customers from the bottom (converted leads). In the middle stage (lead nurturing), you need to nurture the potential leads well (i.e., educate the leads about the product, constantly communicate, etc.) in order to get a higher lead conversion.
X Education has appointed you to help them select the most promising leads, i.e., the leads that are most likely to convert into paying customers. The company requires you to build a model wherein you need to assign a lead score to each of the leads such that the customers with a higher lead score have a higher conversion chance and the customers with a lower lead score have a lower conversion chance. The CEO, in particular, has given a ballpark estimate of the target lead conversion rate as being around 80%.
We have given a "leads" dataset from the past that contained approximately 9000 data points. This dataset consists of various attributes such as Lead Source, Total Time Spent on the Website, Total Visits, Last Activity, etc., which may or may not be useful in ultimately deciding whether a lead will be converted or not. The target variable, in this case, is the column ‘Converted’, which tells whether a past lead was converted or not, where 1 means it was converted and 0 means it wasn’t converted. We also have given "leads data dictonary" to help us with all the variables that are there in "leads" file.
